So as we think back to
the purpose of PCA,
it is to decrease a large number
of variables to just a few.
In the case of temperature, we've taken
12 variables and basically reduced it to
one, since it contains about 92% of
all the variance of all 12 variables.
We might choose to keep PC2 in the mix.
And then it's just two variables that
represent all of the temperature data.
One thing to remember is that since
these actual component variables
are really a mashed up representation
of all the temperature variables,
you really can't relate the values
to actual temperatures directly.
But we've seen that even though we may
not be able to interpret the results on
a number by number basis,
as a whole, the results make sense.
PC1, and possibly PC2,
should allow us to incorporate
the temperature effect of climate
onto our cluster modelling process.